# Amazon-Reviews-NLP-Star-Rating-Prediction-and-LDA-working-progress-

In recent years, Natural Language Processing (NLP) has become an active area of research for extracting insightful information from text data.  NLP is a computerized approach to understand the human language in naturally occurring speech or text form. It encompassses numerous techniques to parse, clean, and interpret texts[1]. One major application of NLP is Sentiment Analysis, the computational study of people’s opinions, attitude, and emotions toward an entity. Sentiment Analysis is a classification approach to detect the polarity and subjectivity in opinions regarding an event, topic, or experiences [2]. In this project, several techniques within NLP will be used to dissect the sentiments toward Amazon’s Grocery and Gourmet Food Department based on reviews collected from 2007 to 2016. The outcome of this project is to categorize different topics addressed within the reviews (i.e. price, quality, delivery, etc) and identify areas of improvement based on the sentiments in each of these topics. 


The dataset that will be used is Amazon Review Data published by UCSD. The entire dataset contains 233 million reviews across 29 categories. For the purpose of this project, a subset of the data from one category (Grocery and Gourmet Food) will be used to perform the analysis. This subset of the data contains 1,143,860 total reviews from 41,320 products, with each of the products having at least 5 reviews (5-core). 

For each category, there are two files: Review file and Metadata file. The review file contains information such as reviewerID, asin (ID of the product), reviewerName, vote (helpful votes of the review), style, reviewText, overall (rating of the product), summary (summary of the review), reviewTime, and image (product image from reviews). The Metadata file contains information such as asin, title (name of the product), features of the product, description of the product, price (in US dollars at time of crawl), image (product image URL), related products (also bought, also viewed, bought together, buy after viewing), salesRank, brand name, categories (list of categories the product belongs to), technical details of the product, and similar products. 

In order to identify the subcategory of the reviews, the two files are combined together based on asin. Since the category field contains a list of categories in increasing specificity, for example: [Grocery & Gourmet Food, Snack Foods, Bars, Nut Bars], the second item in the list will be extracted as ‘Subcategory’ (i.e. Snack Foods). The topic-based sentiment analysis will be performed on a subcategory level with a total of 26 subcategories within the Grocery & Gourmet Food category. 

Link for dataset: https://nijianmo.github.io/amazon/index.html#code
